you know a long time you were my channel
once said to me I think
aisel is not as short in real life as he
may seem on camera I really didn't get
everybody was like how how short do you
think I am with a shot like this this is
exactly why I wonder I'm just kind of
like I'm floating in a sea of
nothingness I mean I filmed this stuff
instead I could do it with the window in
the background or something but it seems
to me like there's no there's no context
you know what you know what it might be
it might because I use a really enormous
cup these cups are huge this is maybe
you think I'm tiny and this is a regular
cific of Melissa could you bring me a
regular-sized cup no rush but yeah that
must be what it is people think I'm
short because I drink out of out of a
huge cup there you go mystery so I go
yeah so I am I am about 6 foot 3 in
American in American measurements yeah
so with that question out of the way um
this is a video that's actually above
veganism for a change had a conversation
over discord last night Isaac was there
a K ask yourself much people talking to
me and you know I realized that done a
few different videos over the years
talking about what I call the boycott
mentality but almost all those videos
there was some other thesis or purpose I
was driving at and I wasn't answering
the simple central question of the
economic efficacy of veganism so I'm
gonna start by answering the question
why does this matter and then I'm gonna
answer the question itself and then
we're gonna move on to necessary
implications because I realized in my
discussion last night this is baffling
and troubling for some vegans and for
some people who are considering becoming
veganism and above all I think it is
troubling for people who are committed
to veganism as a diet but have not yet
committed to whether or not they want to
be vegan activists or how activists
they're gonna be which is a meaningful
question in its own right ok so um why
does this matter some people begin their
engagement with veganism with the jejune
assumption that a change in diet alone
will save the lives of a large number of
animals so they may feel that they
personally are saving the lives of a
certain number of animals they may tell
their family look if all five of us
become vegan then we will save the lives
of so many animals per year they may
even be so foolish that they donate
money to a website a website that
promises them if you donate five hundred
dollars you're gonna save the lives of
so many animals so there's some phony
math out there and that math is
appealing to I don't know your jehoon
wishful thinking wanting to think you're
directly saving life an animal by eating
tofu and not eating turkey right and
then at some point almost all vegans
start to question how linear the
mathematical relationship is here they
look around them in society and they
realize look if we have a country with
300 million people in it and only one
person is vegan and everyone else eats
meat the diet of that one person can't
possibly have an impact on how many cows
are actually being slaughtered how many
pigs are being slaughtered etc etc and
they start to think well if we have a
society of 300 million people and there
were only three thousand vegans in that
society how much of an impact could the
dietary and economic choices of those
3,000 people have could they really save
the lives of even one cow of even one
Pig could they even have an impact on
the prices of these goods and services
and they think at some point they start
to doubt and start to wonder given the
complexities of the free market and also
given the type of intervention in the
free market that the the government has
the various forms of subsidy price
controls assistance to have agriculture
which is different in Europe than it is
in North America it's different in the
United States than it is in China but
nevertheless all around the world you
generally have a hybrid of free market
forces and government intervention
forces bailouts subsidies and subvention
and controls of various kind which
guarantee that farmers make money that
offer for example two four
the government to buy up food that
nobody else wants to Byron wants to eat
so on and so forth these things
profoundly shape the way agriculture
works given these complexities they
start to doubt even if we have thirty
thousand vegans in this country of 300
million people how can we actually
imagine that the dietary choice alone
that the boycott alone is saving the
lives of animals and to give a simple
example we all know if we have a
movement of 30,000 people who refuse to
drink beer we just hope said look forget
it we're all gonna quit alcohol we're
gonna stop drinking beer entirely do you
really think that will directly cause
the beer factories of the world in
aggregate to produce fewer bottles of
beer even if we have 30,000 people now
of course there's also question is our
impact enough that the beer company
would even have a sale or with lower its
prices because there's the flexibility
of supply and demand and price going up
and down and the price of beef the price
of pork the price of these things does
go up now so that's flexible and then
there's also there are also these
mechanisms of government support
government bailout government price
controls also that further skew the type
of impact you can have directly and
economically now sometimes these types
of arguments are easier to make clear if
you take the equation and flip it on its
head if you present the equation in its
inverse very obviously if we had a
society of 300 million people and almost
everybody is vegan
if 99 percent of people are vegan or if
there's only one person who eats meat if
99.99% of people are vegan then
obviously each meal that's eaten by the
one person in our society who eats meat
requires killing an animal right because
nobody else eats meat we are live in a
hypothetical country whenever you see me
meat obviously also if I and my family
let's say I have a family of five people
if we decide to double the amount of
meat we eat every week if we decide to
increase
the enemy we must know that this
corresponds to more animals being killed
and it's very easy to see in aggregate
if everyone in our society decides to
double the amount of beef they eat I'm
saying be for reason not meeting Jim
specifically if everyone's society
decides to double the amount of beef
they eat it is obvious that the millions
of people increasing their beef
consumption must correspond to a
doubling of the number of cows being
killed you can't just have a response in
terms of prices or government
intervention or these other complicating
factors it's true those things are
enough to make you question whether or
not your economic activism mere boycotts
mere changes in consumption can really
have those those kinds of outcomes but
nevertheless we flip it on its head it's
very clear there must be some
relationship here and there must be some
threshold there must be some tipping
point there's some point at which so few
people are buying beer that the beer
factory says hey let's maybe reorganize
and make so many bottles of beer and
maybe we can use the same machinery and
start making so many bottles of soda pop
or orange juice or some other product or
maybe some of the factories have to
close down because people are drinking
less and less bee earth emitted in the
past there's going to be some kind of
reorganization and reckoning with the
reality of what supply demand must be
but what that tipping point is at what
stage you have enough of an impact
through consumer choice and economic
behavior alone is very difficult to say
especially in a society this enormous so
by the same token when I was living in a
small poverty-stricken town in northern
Laos I have mentioned this before but
probably three or four years ago on this
channel I lived in a town where a good
income a good income was 15 US dollars
per month one five US dollars per month
in cash was a good household income and
a wealthy family might have made thirty
forty five dollars a view of income
now there were extreme poverty was
moderated by the fact that they could
get a lot of their food for free so I
knew people earning fifteen US dollars a
month
and they would go out fishing in a tiny
Creek in a tiny River and they would
walk they would wander in the forest and
gather food that grew wild they were
very tough poverty-stricken third world
conditions but one of the reasons was
possible to survive with so little cash
income was that they did have sources of
food that were not paying for and they
also had sources of shelter that were
free they were not paying rent of any
kind most of these people surrounding me
anyway and in these conditions that
talent I'm thinking of they killed on
most days the whole town together killed
one pig per day and I remember I was
once scoffing that if you woke up early
enough in the morning you could see the
rich people going to buy you know pieces
of the one pig that had died that day
now you know the reason one that's a
funny memory for me was that that I then
had to cash myself I had just referred
to these as rich people but it's they
were wealthy relative to the incredibly
bleak standards of poverty so there are
some circumstances now in that town of
course I haven't been back probably if I
went back today probably that same
market in the morning they're probably
killing ten pigs now with the increase
in local affluence the emergence from
communism the emergence from post-war
poverty economic development they
probably have more economic disparity
they probably have more rich people and
more poor people but there probably are
more pigs being killed so in some
circumstances those market mechanisms
you can really see it you can really
measure it but for most of us living in
a highly populous a highly developed
Western economy with millions of people
participating it's very very easy to get
discouraged with the boycott mentality
with merely economic consumerist methods
of vegan activism and if you feel this
way don't deny it don't distract
yourself from it you feel discouraged
for a reason even though there is some
abstract
there's an equation on the chalkboard
that tells you you're doing something
good through this through this boycott
you are correct to doubt that you are
saving the life of even one animal when
you go to the grocery store and choose
to buy tofu rather than beef you are
correct
to worry that vegans being a tiny
minority within the United States of
America are barely having any impact on
the prices of meat and if you want to
study empirically what this looks like
this is why before I mentioned the
doubling of beef specifically over time
in the United States of America or any
large Western society when you look at
the statistics for how many hogs are
being killed how many cows and how many
chickens of course there were more
statistics for just those three examples
keep it simple here you will see
dramatic increases in decreases partly
due to economic recessions partly due to
Wars partly due to sudden aggregations
of trade deals international trade
treaties but most often the ones you can
see in the chart are due to disease so
in the newspapers there will be
headlines saying that there is a deadly
virus being spread through chicken for
example there's a disease of some kind
being spread through chicken meat and
then all of a sudden the number of
chickens being consumed declines and the
number of cows being killed for meat can
increase dramatically by the same token
there's a scare about pork similar
pattern and indeed at several points
during my lifetime there have been major
major health concerns about beef or the
number of cows being eaten suddenly
declines precipitously so one of them
within my life was what was called
creutzfeldt-jakob disease which is also
known as mad cow disease mad cow disease
is obviously a slang term so at
different times whether it's to do
economic forces for sudden fear of death
people for completely non ethical
reasons suddenly stop eating one type of
meat and start eating another so you can
see those dramatic changes in supply and
demand the number of animals being
slaughtered and sold that has happened
there is an historical record of that
and it is
somewhat depressing to know that the
impact vegans can have especially in a
society like the United States of
America is never going to aggregate to
even be a tiny fraction of one of those
case studies that you can look at in the
staff now furthermore this this is the
new part of the story there is right now
a new political lobbying group organized
by the YouTube channel
vegan Batgirl so didn't want to clear
the name of her YouTube channel is vegan
Batgirl I'm not making a joke I'm not
insulting her this isn't a nickname for
her that's name of the YouTube channel
so if you look up vegan Batgirl you'll
see why she chose that appellation she
is an activist who is trying to address
the entanglement of the American
government in the agricultural sector
from a vegan perspective she is hoping
to restore the natural mechanisms of
supply and demand which are a concern
especially with the demand for cow's
milk for dairy because there's so much
government enforcement in trying to
regularize both the supply and the price
of dairy products and she's correct in
saying this does go back to the the
Great Depression era there have been
further legal reforms and new implements
new instruments of government
intervention invented since then series
of stages but in any case the United
States government is deeply entangled in
agriculture and there is a question of
how to disentangle taxpayers money from
what could be a more free-market system
that would be more responsive to changes
in consumer demand but currently it is
very unresponsive in the United States
of America so that is one approach is
try to lobby for political change that
would make boycott and consumer centered
activism more effective that's not my
perspective I do I am very interested in
what she's doing I'm watching what she's
doing I wish you the best and I've
several other vegan activists I know who
have common ground with her I've
directed them to her channel
hey maybe you guys can work together
maybe you can make something positive
happen however when people ask me about
this and they almost always are asking
because they're despairing they're
losing hope in vegan activism the main
thing I remind them of is that the
boycott element of veganism is not
mutually exclusive with any other form
of activism on the contrary the boycott
element is morally prerequisite for the
other forms of activism so my point is
this if centuries ago several centuries
ago if you were an anti-slavery activist
you could not possibly be an
anti-slavery activist while continuing
to own slaves now this is a more
dramatic example but it's not without
historical precedent I do not think you
could be an anti-slavery activist
wearing a jacket wearing clothing made
out of the skin made out of the human
skin of a slave wearing leather of human
origin to put it this way how could you
possibly have any kind of ethical basis
for active it's worse than hypocrisy
there's a conflict of interest there
that's profound and unsettling where
anyone would say to you and when their
right mind would city will look if
you're gonna be an anti-slavery activist
you can't be actively exploiting slaves
yourself this is ridiculous you know you
have to you had there's a first step
here there's something prerequisite
before you can get involved in this this
movement what have you well and there
are many other examples possible
obviously in the same sense as a matter
of one thing one resolution one degree
of self discipline being prerequisite
for the other I do not see how it is
possible in 2018 to be an ecological
activist whether the ecology you're
interested in is water pollution or air
pollution or climate change or saving
the whales helping an endangered species
solar-power
there are so many wonderful forms of
activism involving I do not see how you
can advocate for those things in good
conscience if you are not first a vegan
in terms of your personal discipline
your shopping the boycott your refusal
to buy meat your physical dairy
in terms of this dietary choice and so
on and so forth so my point is even if
we do not see the economic boycott
element as sufficient in itself if you
say you want to also engage in or above
and beyond this you want to engage in
other forms of activism advocacy
organization lobbying government public
education outreach etc or creative work
you want to make a movie whether that's
a documentary movie or even a fictional
movie whatever you want to paint
paintings you want to make you want to
use music whatever the platform for
activism outreach you want to engage in
as a vegan and it may not even be
veganism strictly defined it may be that
you want to save the whales or do
something too involved in ecology there
may be some other angle who take you
some other angle you you adopt
nevertheless you have to recognize the
boycott element as prerequisite for your
own ethical standing for your own
coherence in taking on those other
duties so in closing I was going to say
when I debated this or discuss this last
night you know in real time with some
other some other vegans some other
aspiring vegan activists it closed with
a mixed sense of optimism and
hopelessness and the question was asked
not to me was asked to the whole room
well what if you're in the position of
being very skeptical about how effective
with the boycott element the economic
element of veganism is and you have
other you have other options you have
other opportunities for activism other
ways to make the world a better place
and I said look I think if we're being
honest with ourselves every single
person in this room everybody in the
discussion we all know that's the
reality of our lives we know we could be
doing humanitarian work in Syria we
could be doing humanitarian work on a
First Nations reservation like Etowah
Piscotty we could be reaching out to and
helping the poor and downtrodden or
getting involved in a civil war or
revolution alleviating starvation by
handing out sex advice to serving people
there's a finite but dizzying array of
positive moral causes and positive
opportunities to make the world a better
place
you could be funneling your energy into
and I said to him I hope you are tempted
by those opportunities but I have a
double meaning there one I hope there
are opportunities in your life like that
to make something positive and - I hope
you're the kind of person who feels
tempted to step up and take on those
responsibilities and and embrace an
opportunity to make the world a better
place said and I think all of us will at
different phases of our life have to
make the decision to put vegan activism
on the back burner to make it a lower
priority or no priority at all because
we have some kind of wonderful
opportunity to go to Syria and do
humanitarian work maybe there's an
earthquake in Haiti and you want to go
to where the earthquake is and just
think positive so on and so forth that
is very true especially short-term there
may be extraordinary opportunities you
have to do good in this world
however reciprocally you have to
acknowledge the extraordinary thing
about veganism is it something you can
do right now without requiring
cooperation form I don't want anyone
else you don't need an organization you
don't need a team you don't need a
foundation you don't need anything else
it's a responsibility it's I think to
some extent also a moral duty it's
something very meaningful and very
positive that you can do day in and day
out three meals a day once you get used
to it it's as easy as washing your hands
or brushing your teeth it becomes part
of the rhythm of your daily life and it
is prerequisite as a platform before you
can take on those other perhaps higher
perhaps lower perhaps more effective
perhaps less effective those other forms
of moral duty